This video is for the exercise that accompanies the previous video on Oilers formula.
But you want to do in this exercise is right a function I call it Euler from costs sign and the idea
is that this function will ask the user for two inputs one number corresponding to the cosine part and
one number corresponding to the sine part.
And then you want to generate a graph that looks like this.
So we have the line so this vector here that corresponds to the vector that comes from having a cosine
part of 3 and a sine part of 4.
And then in the title of this polar plot you should also write out m e to the AI theta actually looks
like here I'm using the great character fee but you know people use fee or theta to indicate angles
so fee or theta and then you write m equals whatever it ends up being and theta and is also Whatever
this ends up being and I don't notice that this graph has angled tick marks at kind of random looking
places.
So there is actually a way to specify using a polar plot which theta grids you want to have indicated.
Now I haven't yet shown you how to do that so that's gonna be something that you will have to figure
out how to get these theta grid lines to show at whatever angles you want them to be.
All right.
So now is your chance to pause the videos switch to Python.
Write some code get a function that will reproduce this output.
And now I am going to switch to Python and you can watch me solve this all right.
So let's start down on a new cell over here.
So as I mentioned I called my function Euler from costs sine and again we don't need any inputs into
this function because we are going to get them from the user.
So let's see.
I will take the real part and that's going to be input cosine part and then the imaginary part which
corresponds to the signs of the real part always corresponds the cosine the imaginary part corresponds
to the sine.
That's going to be input sine part.
OK.
Now you already know from previous videos in this section and in previous sections that this is not
really going to work as is.
And that's because the output of this function is going to be a string.
But we need to be working with numbers.
So therefore you could write something like this float.
However you also learned in a previous video in this section that this will only work if you actually
input numbers.
If you input Pi which is a pretty reasonable input to make here in this case then this is going to lead
to an error.
So in fact the best way to set this up is with eval.
So we will evaluate whatever the input is and of course we need in parentheses over here.
Okay.
So just to make sure that this part is working I'm just going to print out the real part and the imaginary
part and then I'm already going to run this with a couple of different inputs.
So.
So the cosine part let's just uh let's say 5 and 5.
Okay.
So when the inputs work as expected we get the appropriate outputs.
Let's try it again.
Now I'm gonna make sure this works with pi.
Let's say pi and pi over whatever some number.
Okay so here we get Pi and I don't know what this number is but it's a pretty small number.
And that's to be expected because I made the denominator exceedingly large here.
Let's try one more thing.
How about uh if I set this to be text 0.
Now we get an error.
Okay.
It says Name A S J.
D H F is not defined.
Now the reason why we get this error is that Python is trying to evaluate this input whatever this input
is.
So this is basically the same thing as saying insert so below.
It's as if we would just write this down here and then run this cell and then we get exactly the same
error is a name error because this name is not defined.
Now I'm not going to worry about this but it's something to be aware of that if you are writing functions
for your own personal use then it's fine to make some assumptions about what the user will input.
But if you are going to be using these kinds of functions for production quality code that is code that
you're going to be giving to other people sharing with other people maybe posting online for anyone
else in the world to use then it is important to think about what can happen if someone would provide
some really weird input that you don't expect.
Okay so I just wanted to say that and make that clear but I'm going to ignore this issue for now anyway.
So now the question is how do we get.
So we need to get m and K to build up Oilers formula from the here I call it the real part the imaginary
part but that's corresponding to the cosine part and the sine part.
So how do we get m and K out of these two parts.
Well you might remember from the section on algebra 2 that the way to extract the magnitude the distance
from the origin is to use the Pythagorean theorem.
And so that is going to be the square root of the real part squared plus the imaginary part squared.
In other words the cosine part squared plus the sine part squared.
And then K the angle K we extract using the arc tangent.
So the inverse of the tangent function and then we input the imaginary part and the real part again
that corresponds to these sine part and the cosine part.
OK.
So now we are ready to make a plot.
So let's say BLT dot puller.
And now this first input is gonna be 0 K and then the second input is going to be 0 m and then P L T
that show.
Now there's already a couple more things that we need to to do in this formula but I want to run this
now just to make sure that it's working so input the cosine part let's say three and a sine part is
four and we get an angle over here.
So how do we know that this is correct.
Well it's probably a good idea to run this again with some known results so we can double check.
So let's make the cosine Part B 1 and the sine Part B zero.
And then you see that we have a unit vector that's exactly along the coastline axis.
So that's pretty good.
And maybe I'll say the cosine part is minus one the sine part is minus one.
And I know for sure that this line this vector here has to lie on a diagonal because the cosine and
the sine part are equal so when the cosine and sine parts are equal we have vectors on the diagonal
in the 45 degree or two twenty five diagonal.
And if these two are equal in magnitude but different in sine then the vector would be across this diagonal
over here.
All right.
So this is pretty good we're getting somewhere.
But I want to do next is write the titles so P L T the title and now this is going to say m e to the.
Now I need to use later coding to have powers here.
So I'm going to write to Dollar Signs and in between them use a carrot to indicate exponential nation.
And then this is going to be I.
And then fee.
So m e to the Ike comma m equals and then we'll need a substitution here.
Percent G.
And then I also want this to be in later coding so I'm going to write.
Fee equals.
And then another percent G over here.
All right.
So then these substitutions are M and K so let's do one and one.
And here we go.
M e to Ike.
M equals one point four.
And we can confirm on the graph that is consistent with what we see on this plot and fee equals point
seven eight radians.
And now I don't actually know what point seven eight radians means but looking at this vector I know
that this should be pi over four and that's because this right angle here would be pi over 2 and this
is pi.
So this is pi over to then this has to be pi over four.
So let's see NPD up pi divided by 4 indeed equals point 7 8 5 3 9.
Yeah.
So this is legit.
That's correct.
All right.
So now all of the grid lines here for the angles are equally spaced but that is not what I want.
I want to be able to control exactly which vectors get drawn or which guide angles get drawn.
So to do that I hope you discovered this on your own.
The function name is called theta.
Or the property name is theta grids.
And then you input a list that says which angles should get drawn.
So for example if I leave that list blank then I get no indicators at all anywhere.
And then basically whatever numbers you put in here are going to be drawn here.
So I forget exactly what I showed in the picture in the slides but it was something like forty five
maybe it was one thirty and two hundred and two twenty one two point two about that whoops.
A typical mistake.
I think this is in one of the bug hands from earlier as well that I didn't use commas I use spaces in
here instead of comments.
Okay.
So let's see.
All right.
So it looks like the uh my colonel got stuck.
You can see that happening when the the little ball over here to the left of Python 3 is busy and sometimes
you can press this stop button here to interrupt the colonel sometimes that works sometimes it's actually
best just to restart the kernel.
That does mean that all of your variables will be lost.
However that's not such a problem for us.
Okay.
So now you can see that this circle is empty again.
So now I need to rerun basically everything that's really important which is just that top line and
then this function and then I can run the function OK.
So here you see we get these theta guidelines at zero forty five one thirty two hundred and two twenty
two.
Very nice.
I hope you enjoyed this video and the previous video on Oilers formula and it also ended up being serendipitous
that you learned about what to do when the kernel gets stuck in Python how to restart it in the next
couple of videos.
We are going to continue using Oilers formula and cosine and sign and trigonometry to create some pretty
looking art.
So stay tuned.